# Variables

Most of the time, a JavaScript application needs to work with information. Here are two examples:

 - An online shop – the information might include goods being sold and a shopping cart.
 - 2.A chat application – the information might include users, messages, and much more.

Variables are used to store this information.

### A variable

To create a variable in JavaScript, use the let keyword.

    let user = 'John';
    let age = 25;
    let message = 'Hello';

### Data Types

undefined, null, boolean, string, symbol, number, and object

### Constants

Variables declared using const are called “constants”. They cannot be reassigned. An attempt to do so would cause an error.

    const myBirthday = '18.04.1982';

## String Methods and Properties

### String Length

    var txt = "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ";
    var sln = txt.length;

### Finding a String in a String

    var str = "Please locate where 'locate' occurs!";
    var pos = str.indexOf("locate");
    ---
    var str = "Please locate where 'locate' occurs!";
    var pos = str.search("locate");

### Extracting String Parts

There are 3 methods for extracting a part of a string:

 - slice(start, end)
 - substring(start, end)
 - substr(start, length)

#### The slice() Method

     var str = "Apple, Banana, Kiwi";
     var res = str.slice(7, 13);

#### The substring() Method

substring() is similar to slice().

The difference is that substring() cannot accept negative indexes.

    var str = "Apple, Banana, Kiwi";
    var res = str.substring(7, 13);

#### The substr() Method

substr() is similar to slice().

The difference is that the second parameter specifies the length of the extracted part.

    var str = "Apple, Banana, Kiwi";
    var res = str.substr(7, 6);

### Replacing String Content

The replace() method replaces a specified value with another value in a string:

    str = "Please visit Microsoft!";
    var n = str.replace("Microsoft", "W3Schools");

### Converting to Upper and Lower Case

A string is converted to upper case with toUpperCase():

    var text1 = "Hello World!";       // String
    var text2 = text1.toUpperCase();  // text2 is text1 converted to upper

A string is converted to lower case with toLowerCase():

    var text1 = "Hello World!";       // String
    var text2 = text1.toLowerCase();  // text2 is text1 converted to lower

#### The concat() Method

concat() joins two or more strings:

    var text1 = "Hello";
    var text2 = "World";
    var text3 = text1.concat(" ", text2);

### String.trim()

    var str = "       Hello World!        ";
    alert(str.trim());
